This app provides rapid access to complete spatial distribution summaries for various climate variables.
Probability distributions are estimated from downscaled historical and projected climate model outputs, 
as well as from downscaled Climatological Research Unit (CRU) data for historical periods.
Spatial probability distributions are conditioned on various geographical regions of interest.
A number of different map sets are available, each of which contains related geographical subregions
that can be selected and compared.

Data sets are stored in the Amazon Web Services S3 cloud environment. By accessing these data sets
on demand, this app can quickly deliver full distributional information regarding climate projections based on
user settings. The plots of densities and individual observations provide a much more complete picture of the 
spatial variation in the climate series than relying strictly on select statistics.
Distributional shape and properties such as modality are readily observable. With access to the distributions,
any statistics of interest can be calculated.

Additionally, when multiple spatially explicit data sets are requested by the user, the app offers the ability
to compute marginal distributions for a climate variable by integrating out, for instance, multiple
GCMs, RCPs, regions and/or years. By working with complete distributions rather than aggregate statistics from the start,
it becomes possible to merge densities to yield these marginal probability distributions.

In total, the app offers more than 46 million spatial probability distributions among 86 unique geographic subdomains
across more than 45,000 high-resolution, spatially explicit climate maps.
These maps cover all climate variables, time periods, GCMs and RCPs.
Overall, the app provides users with direct access to a synthesis of map layers containing a total of approximately 200 billion pixels
without the need to reduce spatial climate distributions to a handful of precomputed statistics.
Then with some additional in-app computing time at users' discretion, 
the app also allows users to compute any number of marginal distributions of interest.
The app exposes hundreds of gigabytes of data to the user and any slice of the data can be rapidly accessed.
