Welcome to the SNAP climate data exploration tool for downscaled preciptiation and temperature.
This R Shiny app offers 3.7 million spatial probability distributions among 82 unique geographic subdomains
across more than 45,000 high resolution, spatially explicit climate maps containing a total of approximately 200 billion pixels,
all without the need to reduce spatial climate distributions to select, precomputed statistics.
The app exposes hundreds of gigabytes of data to the user and any slice of the data can be rapidly accessed.
After the tour, for additional information, see the Information tab in the sidebar.

The first thing to note is that the map layer can be changed here.
The default map layer is the full SNAP Alaska/western Canada domain. Several other map layers are available,
each offering multiple subdomains.

An interactive map allows you to select one or more subdomains available in the currently loaded map layer.
The default full domain layer does not contain any selectable subdomains.

When subdomains are available for the selected map layer,
clicking on polygons in the map pane is convenient for selecting or deselecting subdomains, but this can also be done
using the region selection menu, which populates with the same subdomains based on the selected map layer.
The dropdown menu selections and interactive map selections are synchronized.

Four climate variables are available: seasonal total precipitation and seasonal 
means of minimum, mean, and maximum daily temperatures.

Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) refer to different levels of
projected future greenhouse gas emmissions based on different assumptions about population growth,
economic development and energy usage. Three RCPs are available for each climate model.
See the Information tab for more details about RCPs.

There are five General Circulation Models (GCMs) available. Using multiple RCPs and GCMs provides
a more robust representation of future uncertainty. See the Information tab for more details about GCMs.

Annual and seasonal distributions are available. The seasons winter, spring, summer and autumn
correspond to three-month precipitation totals and temperature averages beginning in December of the previous year
and ending in November of the current year.

Years available are from 1860 - 2099. Historical GCM data runs from 1860 - 2005. 
Projected outputs run from 2006 - 2099. Optional accompanying CRU 4.0 historical data runs from 1900 - 2015.

Marginal distributions can be computed by integrating out levels of factors specified here.
Note that integration will be more time-intensive for greater numbers of variables and their selected levels, 
including the range of years selected. A progress bar will display in the bottom right corner.

When multiple levels of a factor variable are included in the data selection, plots can be colored by levels.

Faceting by a variable's levels works the same as with coloring.

When user selections are complete, click here to load the relevant data slices, compile probability distributions,
and draw summary plots.

Additional settings pertaining to plot formatting can be found here.

When the only changes made pertain to plot formatting, regenerate plots and statistics without reloading redundant data.
This saves time, especially with large data sets or when computing marginal distributions as part of your data specifications.
Rebuilding distributions is only necessary when data selections have changed.

Results based on annual data are shown.
Statistics are derived from the full spatial climate probability densities for the selected geographic region(s).
These statistics are based on annual data over the full selected time period.

The density plot shows climate probability distributions for the selected aggregate time period.

The annual time series shows annual mean climate values with a fitted regression line and confidence band by default.
Plot settings can be changed to show the distribution of individual annaul observations in place of or in addition to mean values.
Brushing the time series with your mouse highlights a range of years The summary stat boxes and density plot 
automatically update to reflect a distributional summary your selection.
You can zoom in by double-clicking on a brushed area. Double-click again to zoom out.

On the decadal tab, the stats overview relates to decadal mean change and derives from the decadal distributions
of annual climate values across space and within each decade.
The first two statistics show the change between the first and last selected decades.
Percent change only applies to precipitation.
The next two show which pairs of consecutive decades account for the smallest and largest decade-to-decade change.
The last two show which decades have the smallest and largest climate values on average.

Decadal boxplots show the distribution of climate values in space and time per decade.
By default, observations are shown as an overlay. The combination of boxplots and unique observations can be changed in the plot settings.
Like the annual time series, brushing the plot with your mouse updates the statistical summary.
